#summary HazelcastWM Snapshot Events
== Snapshot Events == 

Hazelcast Webapp Manager (HazelcastWM) lets you get statistics on your running application so that you can monitor the health of your application. HazelcastWM collects statistics like number of created/destroyed sessions, average session data size, number of requests, average response time, min. and max. response times for a given time interval (x seconds). So it is like taking a snapshot of the running application every x seconds and passing it to the listeners as a SnapshotEvent . Here is a sample servlet that listens for snapshot events.

{{{            
public class MonitoringServlet extends HttpServlet implements SnapshotListener {
	 
	public void init(ServletConfig config) throws ServletException {
		super.init(config);
		ServletContext servletContext = config.getServletConfig();
		Context hazelcastContext = (Context) servletContext.getAttribute(Context.ATTRIBUTE_NAME);
		hazelcastContext.addSnapshotListener(this);
	}


	public void service(ServletRequest req, ServletResponse res) throws IOException, ServletException {
		//do something here
	}

	public void handleSnapshot (SnapshotEvent snapshot) {
		System.out.println("===== Here are the metrics of the last 30 seconds =====");
		System.out.println(snapshot);
		System.out.println("ave.      response time : " + snapshot.getAverageResponseTime());
		System.out.println("min.      response time : " + snapshot.getMinResponseTime());
		System.out.println("max.      response time : " + snapshot.getMaxResponseTime());
		System.out.println("# of           requests : " + snapshot.getNumberOfRequests()); 
		System.out.println("# of       new sessions : " + snapshot.getCreatedSessionCount()); 
		System.out.println("# of destroyed sessions : " + snapshot.getDestroyedSessionCount()); 
		System.out.println("=======================================================");
	}
}
}}}  	