#summary Distributed executions based on keys
== Key Based Distributed Executions ==
*IMPORTANT! This documentation is out-dated and will be removed soon. Official Hazelcast documentation can be found at http://www.hazelcast.com/docs.jsp.

Hazelcast has a standard way of finding out which member owns/manages
each key object. Following operations will be routed to the same member, 
since all of them are operating based on the same key, "key1".
{{{
Hazelcast.getMap("mapa").put("key1", value);
Hazelcast.getMap("mapb").get("key1");
Hazelcast.getMap("mapc").remove("key1");
// since map names are different, operation will be manipulating 
// different entries, but the operation will take place on the 
// same member since the keys ("key1") are the same

Hazelcast.getLock ("key1").lock();
// lock operation will still execute on the same member of the cluster
// since the key ("key1") is same

Hazelcast.getExecutorService().execute(new DistributedTask(runnable, "key1"));
// distributed execution will execute the 'runnable' on the same member
// since "key1" is passed as the key.

}}}

So when the keys are the same then entries are stored on the same node. But we
sometimes want to have related entries stored on the same node. Consider customer
and his/her order entries. We would have customers map with customerId as the key
and orders map with orderId as the key. Since customerId and orderIds are different
keys, customer and his/her orders may fall into different members/nodes in your cluster.
So how can we have them stored on the same node? The trick here is to create an affinity
between customer and orders. If we can somehow make them part of the same partition then
these entries will be co-located. We achieve this by making orderIds `PartitionAware`

{{{
public class OrderKey implements Serializable, PartitionAware {
        int customerId;
        int orderId;

        public OrderKey(int orderId, int customerId) {
            this.customerId = customerId;
            this.orderId = orderId;
        }

        public int getCustomerId() {
            return customerId;
        }

        public int getOrderId() {
            return orderId;
        }

        public Object getPartitionKey() {
            return customerId;
        }

        @Override
        public String toString() {
            return "OrderKey{" +
                    "customerId=" + customerId +
                    ", orderId=" + orderId +
                    '}';
        }
}
}}}

Notice that OrderKey implements `PartitionAware` and `getPartitionKey()` returns the `customerId`.
{{{
Map mapCustomers = Hazelcast.getMap("customers")
Map mapOrders = Hazelcast.getMap("orders")
// create the customer entry with customer id = 1
mapCustomers.put(1, customer);
// now create the orders for this customer
mapOrders.put(new OrderKey(21, 1), order);
mapOrders.put(new OrderKey(22, 1), order);
mapOrders.put(new OrderKey(23, 1), order);
}}}

Let say you have a customers map where customerId 
is the key and the customer object is the value. and customer object
contains the customer's orders. and let say you want to remove one of
the orders of a customer and return the number of remaining orders.

Here is how you would normally do it:
{{{
public static int removeOrder(long customerId, long orderId) throws Exception {
		IMap<Long, Customer> mapCustomers = Hazelcast.getMap("customers");
		mapCustomers.lock (customerId);
		Customer customer = mapCustomers. get(customerId);
		customer.removeOrder (orderId);
		mapCustomers.put(customerId, customer);
		mapCustomers.unlock(customerId);
		return customer.getOrderCount();
}
}}}

There are couple of things we should consider:
  # There are four distributed operations there..  lock, get, put, unlock.. Can we reduce the number of distributed operations?
  # Customer object may not be that big but can we not have to pass that
object through the wire? Notice that, we are actually passing customer
object through the wire twice; get and put.

So instead, why not moving the computation over to the member (JVM)
where your customer data actually is.

Here is how you can do this with distributed executor service:
  # Send a `Callable` task to the member owning the key, clusterId.
  # `Callable` does the deletion of the order right there and returns with the remaining order count.
  # Upon completion of the `Callable` task, return the result (remaining
order count).

Plus you do not have to wait until the the task complete; since
distributed executions are asynchronous, you can do other things
meanwhile.

here is a sample code:
{{{
public static int removeOrder(long customerId, long orderId) throws Exception {
	   ExecutorService es = Hazelcast.getExecutorService();
	   FutureTask<Integer> task = new DistributedTask<Integer>(new OrderDeletionTask(customerId, orderId), customerId);
	   es.execute(task);
	   int remainingOrders = task.get();
	   return remainingOrders;
}

public static class OrderDeletionTask implements Callable<Integer>, Serializable {

	   private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;
	   private long customerId;
	   private long orderId;
	
	   public OrderDeletionTask() {
	   }
	   public OrderDeletionTask(long customerId, long orderId) {
	           super();
	           this.customerId = customerId;
	           this.orderId = orderId;
	   }
	   public Integer call () {
	           IMap<Long, Customer> mapCustomers = Hazelcast.getMap("customers");
	           mapCustomers.lock (customerId);
	           Customer customer = mapCustomers. get(customerId);
	           customer.removeOrder (orderId);
	           mapCustomers.put(customerId, customer);
	           mapCustomers.unlock(customerId);
	           return customer.getOrderCount();
	   }
}
}}}

Benefits of doing the same operation with `DistributedTask` based on the key are:
  # Only one distributed execution (`es.execute(task)`), instead of four.
  # Less data sent over the wire.
  # Since lock/update/unlock cycle is done locally (local to the customer data), lock duration for the `Customer` entry is much less so enabling higher concurrency.

  